# PKI - Public Key Infrastructure

Key - Usually a hexadecimal stream of a certain length used for cryptographic purposes

Symmetric key - A key which can be used to encrypt / decrypt a document. This is very fast.

Asymmetric key - A key pair (private and public) are generated. If one key encrypts, 
only the other one would be able to decrypt. Both are mathematically related, but using one we 
cannot deduce the other key. This is slow.

Certificate - Is an entity which binds a key with a name. Usually a certificate is generated by a CA (Certification Authority)
It contains the following things
- A copy of the public key of the requester
- Digitally signs it with his (CA) private key
- Date of issuance / expiry
- Serial number (Unique number used to identify a certificate, used in case any certificate has to be blacklisted, 
  A list called CRL - certificate revocation list is maintained by the CA or RA)
- Encryption algorithms used

CA (Certification Authority) - issues, revokes, renews certificates. Also called root CA.

Subordinate CA (also called Registration Authority RA) - same as CA but comes in second level. It is recommended to 
take root CA's offline once Sub CA's / RA's are established.

SSL Certificate - These are actually PKI certificate or X.509 certificate. Calling them SSL is wrong because it's not used 
anymore. It is the legacy technology which got replaced by TLS, TLS 1.2 onwards is recommended to be used.

How this works:-

Let's say there is a Client , Server and a CA.

When the client makes any request to Server, Server would provide its certificate which is issue and signed by the CA.
Now client can verify this certificate. Once this is complete. It means the trust to the server is established.
Server will then server can share its public key and start encrypting data with its private key and send it to client.
Client using the servers public key can safely decrypt and use data. 

p.s. - Synchronous keys are still used where low latency is needed. Transmission of this key can be done by using
Asymmetric key pairs technique and data transfer can happen using symmetric keys technique. In short, keys are transferred using
a strong but slow method and data is transferred using fast but less secure method. But since key is transferred safely,
there is not much reason to worry.